Add Mender architecture overview to README (#1178)
mendersoftware/mender: README.md

---

# Quick look at the high-level architecture

> ![Mender architecture](mender_architecture.png)

Reviewer: Is the original hosted in a Google document somewhere that you can link to with `<!-- LINK -->`?

Author: @kacf we can do that, but Google Drive is not very reliable as people can remove or modify documents and we have zero protection from this.

Reviewer: Of course, it's not an absolute source. But better than having nothing.

Author: @kacf so to be clear. You want me to add `<!-- https://drive.google.com/file/d/1pKfJ-eRHYrDYZW7jCTHI7_D9tEF-rKDz -->` under the image as a comment?

Reviewer: Yes, so that if it needs editing later, it can be found again. There are already several of these spread around the repository, like [the state diagrams](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/0B6EXyILUYX54TWR5THZVbUZNR3M?resourcekey=0-thOspORP_ySJ0DnGuWvNRw) for example.

---

> # Quick look at the high-level architecture

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# High-level architecture overview
```

![Mender architecture](mender_architecture.png)

> <!-- https://drive.google.com/file/d/1pKfJ-eRHYrDYZW7jCTHI7_D9tEF-rKDz -->

Author: @kacf is this what you've been asking for?

Reviewer: Yes, perfect!

The chart above depicts a typical Mender architecture with the following elements:

* Back End & User Interface: The shaded sky blue area is the Mender product which comprises the back end and the user interface (UI).
* Clients: The Mender client runs on the devices represented by the devices icon.

> * Gateway: All communications between devices, users, and Mender  occur through an API gateway. [Traefik](https://traefik.io) is used for the API gateway. The gateway routes requests coming from the clients to the right micro-service(s) in the Mender back end.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Gateway: All communications between devices, users, and the back end occur through an API gateway. [Traefik](https://traefik.io) is used for the API gateway. The gateway routes the requests coming from the clients to the right micro-service(s) in the Mender back end.
```

> * NATS message broker: some of the micro-services use NATS as a message broker to support the Mender device update troubleshooting and the orchestration that takes place within the system.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* NATS message broker: some of the micro-services use NATS as a message broker to support the Mender device update troubleshooting and the orchestration within the system.
```

> * Mongo DB: used as the main database underlying the Mender back end and micro-services.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Mongo DB: persistent database for the Mender back end micro-services.
```

> * Storage layer: in both hosted and on premise Mender, an AWS S3 Bucket (or S3 API-compatible) or an Azure Storage Account storage layer is used to store the artifacts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Storage layer: in both hosted and on-premise Mender, an AWS S3 Bucket (or S3 API-compatible) or an Azure Storage Account storage layer is used to store the artifacts.
```

> * Redis cache: Mender uses Redis for caching to enable device management at scale.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Redis: in-memory cache to enable device management at scale.
```

> More detailed information you can find in our [documentation](https://docs.mender.io/3.5/server-installation/overview).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can find more detailed information in our [documentation](https://docs.mender.io/3.5/server-installation/overview).
```
